---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "opnsense_firewall_nat_nptv6 Data Source - opnsense"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Retrieves information about a NPTv6 NAT rule.
---

# opnsense_firewall_nat_nptv6 (Data Source)

Retrieves information about a NPTv6 NAT rule.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Get NPTv6 NAT rule as data source via it's uuid
data "opnsense_firewall_nat_nptv6" "data_source_via_id" {
  id = "5b034f00-d4b3-4eba-82d6-d74fce5f149b"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) Identifier of the NPTv6 rule entry.

### Read-Only

- `categories` (List of String) The categories of the rule.
- `description` (String) The description of the rule.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the NPTv6 rule entry is enabled.
- `external_prefix` (String) The external IPv6 prefix. This will replace the prefix of the source address in outbound packets. Leave empty to auto-detect the prefix address using the specified tracking interface instead. The prefix size specified for the internal prefix will also be applied to the external prefix.
- `interface` (String) The interface this rule applies to.
- `internal_prefix` (String) The internal IPv6 prefix used in the LAN(s). This will replace the prefix of the destination address in inbound packets. The prefix size specified here will also be applied to the external prefix.
- `log` (Boolean) Whether packets that are handled by this rule should be logged.
- `sequence` (Number) Order in which multiple matching rules are evaluated and applied.
- `track_interface` (String) Use prefix defined on the selected interface instead of the interface this rule applies to when target prefix is not provided.
