---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "opnsense_firewall_shaper_queues Data Source - opnsense"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Retrieves information about a traffic shaper queue.
---

# opnsense_firewall_shaper_queues (Data Source)

Retrieves information about a traffic shaper queue.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Get traffic shaper queue as data source via it's uuid
data "opnsense_firewall_shaper_queues" "data_source_via_id" {
  id = "5b034f00-d4b3-4eba-82d6-d74fce5f149b"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) Identifier of the traffic shaper queue.

### Read-Only

- `buckets` (Number) Specifies the size of the hash table used for storing the various dynamic queues configured with the mask setting. Negative values are treated as default (i.e empty)
- `codel` (Attributes) CoDel active queue management. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--codel))
- `description` (String) Description to identify this pipe.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the traffic shaper queue is enabled.
- `mask` (String) Dynamic queue creation by source or destination address.
- `pie` (Boolean) Whether PIE active queue management should be enabled.
- `pipe` (String) Connected pipe for this queue.
- `weight` (Number) Weight of this queue (`1..100`), used to prioritize within a pipe. (1 is low, 100 is high).

<a id="nestedatt--codel"></a>
### Nested Schema for `codel`

Read-Only:

- `ecn` (Boolean) Whether explicit congestion notification is enabled.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether CoDel active queue management is enabled.
- `interval` (Number) Interval before dropping packets (in ms), negative values are treated as default (i.e empty).
- `target` (Number) Minimum acceptable persistent queue delay (in ms), negative values are treated as default (i.e empty).
