---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "opnsense_firewall_shaper_pipes Data Source - opnsense"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Retrieves information about a traffic shaper pipe.
---

# opnsense_firewall_shaper_pipes (Data Source)

Retrieves information about a traffic shaper pipe.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Get traffic shaper pipe as data source via it's uuid
data "opnsense_firewall_shaper_pipes" "data_source_via_id" {
  id = "5b034f00-d4b3-4eba-82d6-d74fce5f149b"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) Identifier of the traffic shaper pipe.

### Read-Only

- `bandwidth` (Attributes) Bandwidth for this pipe. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--bandwidth))
- `buckets` (Number) Specifies the size of the hash table used for storing the various dynamic pipes configured with the mask setting. Negative values are treated as default (i.e empty)
- `codel` (Attributes) CoDel active queue management. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--codel))
- `delay` (Number) Add delay in ms to this pipe. Negative values are treated as default (i.e empty)
- `description` (String) Description to identify this pipe.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the traffic shaper pipe is enabled.
- `mask` (String) Dynamic pipe creation by source or destination address.
- `pie` (Boolean) Whether PIE active queue management should be enabled.
- `queue` (Number) Number of dynamic queues, negative values are treated as default (i.e empty).
- `scheduler` (String) Specifies the scheduling algorithm to use.

<a id="nestedatt--bandwidth"></a>
### Nested Schema for `bandwidth`

Read-Only:

- `metric` (String) Metric used for the bandwidth specified. Values are per second (e.g `bit/s`).
- `value` (Number) Total bandwidth for this pipe.


<a id="nestedatt--codel"></a>
### Nested Schema for `codel`

Read-Only:

- `ecn` (Boolean) Whether explicit congestion notification is enabled.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether CoDel active queue management is enabled.
- `flows` (Number) The number of flow queues that are created and managed, negative values are treated as default (i.e empty).
- `interval` (Number) Interval before dropping packets (in ms), negative values are treated as default (i.e empty).
- `limit` (Number) The hard size limit of all queues managed by this instance, negative values are treated as default (i.e empty).
- `quantum` (Number) The number of bytes a queue can serve before being moved to the tail of old queues list (bytes), negative values are treated as default (i.e empty).
- `target` (Number) Minimum acceptable persistent queue delay (in ms), negative values are treated as default (i.e empty).
