---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "opnsense_firewall_shaper_rules Data Source - opnsense"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Retrieves information about a traffic shaper rule.
---

# opnsense_firewall_shaper_rules (Data Source)

Retrieves information about a traffic shaper rule.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Get traffic shaper rule as data source via it's uuid
data "opnsense_firewall_shaper_rules" "data_source_via_id" {
  id = "5b034f00-d4b3-4eba-82d6-d74fce5f149b"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) Identifier of the traffic shaper rule.

### Read-Only

- `description` (String) Description to identify this rule.
- `destination_not` (Boolean) Whether the destination matching should be inverted.
- `destination_port` (String) Destination port number or well known name.
- `destinations` (List of String) Destination ips or networks, examples `10.0.0.0/24`, `10.0.0.1`.
- `direction` (String) Direction of packet matching.
- `dscp` (List of String) Match against one or multiple DSCP values.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the traffic shaper rule is enabled.
- `interface` (String) The interface this rule applies to.
- `interface2` (String) The secondary interface, matches packets traveling to/from interface (1) to/from interface (2). Can be combined with direction.
- `max_packet_length` (Number) Specifies the maximum size of packets to match in bytes. Negative values are treated as default (i.e empty)
- `protocol` (String) The applicable protocol for this rule.
- `sequence` (Number) Order in which the rule will be evaluated (lowest first).
- `source_not` (Boolean) Whether the source matching should be inverted.
- `source_port` (String) Source port number or well known name.
- `sources` (List of String) Source IPs or networks, examples `10.0.0.0/24`, `10.0.0.1`.
- `target` (String) Target pipe or queue.
