---
page_title: opnsense_captive_portal_templates Resource - opnsense
description: |-
  OPNsense’s template allows for customizing your own login page. It offers additional functionalities such as URL redirection, option for your own Pop-up and a custom Splash page.
---

# opnsense_captive_portal_templates (Resource)

OPNsense’s template allows for customizing your own login page. It offers additional functionalities such as URL redirection, option for your own Pop-up and a custom Splash page.

-> Currently, we are unable to verify and track changes in the template on OPNsense. Multiple downloads of the same template from OPNsense have different hashes, therefore, there is no reliable way to verify if templates on OPNsense match the local file. Only local changes to the template file can be tracked and uploaded to OPNsense.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Example captive portal template
resource "opnsense_captive_portal_templates" "example_captive_portal_template" {
  name          = "example_template"
  template      = "assets/captive-portal-template-default.zip"
  template_hash = filesha512("assets/captive-portal-template-default.zip")
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Name of the template. Please ensure that each template has a unique name, otherwise, OPNsense will override the previous template with the same name.
- `template` (String) Path to the template (Can be absolute or relative paths). Templates should be packaged as a zip file.
- `template_hash` (String) SHA512 hash of the template file. Used to detect changes in the template file locally (**Does not track changes made to template remotely on OPNsense**). The usual way to set this is `filesha512("file.zip")`, where `file.zip` is the path to the template (same as the `template` attribute).

### Read-Only

- `file_id` (String) Identifier of the template file stored on OPNsense.
- `id` (String) Identifier of the captive portal template.
- `last_updated` (String) DateTime when the captive portal template was last updated.
## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# Captive portal templates can be imported by specifying the template name.
terraform import opnsense_captive_portal_templates.import_example your_template_name
```