---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "opnsense_firewall_alias Resource - opnsense"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Aliases are named lists of networks, hosts or ports that can be used as one entity by referencing the alias name in the various supported sections of the firewall. These aliases are particularly useful to condense firewall rules and minimize changes.
---

# opnsense_firewall_alias (Resource)

Aliases are named lists of networks, hosts or ports that can be used as one entity by referencing the alias name in the various supported sections of the firewall. These aliases are particularly useful to condense firewall rules and minimize changes.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Example alias referencing the opnsense website
resource "opnsense_firewall_alias" "resource_example" {
  enabled     = true
  name        = "opnsense_website"
  type        = "host"
  counters    = true
  description = "OPNsense main website"
  content = [
    "opnsense.org",
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the alias
- `type` (String) The type of the alias. Must be one of: `host`, `network`, `port`, `url`, `urltable`, `geoip`, `networkgroup`, `mac`, `asn`, `dynipv6host`, `authgroup`, `internal`, `external`

### Optional

- `categories` (List of String) The categories of the alias. Ensure that the categories are in lexicographical order, else the provider will detect a change on every execution.
- `content` (List of String) The content of the alias. Ensure that the content are in lexicographical order, else the provider will detect a change on every execution.
- `counters` (Boolean) Whether the statistics of the alias is enabled. Defaults to `false`
- `description` (String) The description of the alias
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the alias is enabled. Defaults to `true`
- `interfaces` (List of String) [Only for `dynipv6` type] The alias interfaces. Ensure that the interfaces are in lexicographical order, else the provider will detect a change on every execution.
- `proto` (Attributes) [Only for `asn` & `geoip` types] The alias protocols (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--proto))
- `updatefreq` (Attributes) [Only for `urltable` type] The update frequency of the alias. Days and hours will be added together the determine the final update frequency (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--updatefreq))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) Identifer of the alias
- `last_updated` (String) DateTime when alias was last updated

<a id="nestedatt--proto"></a>
### Nested Schema for `proto`

Optional:

- `ipv4` (Boolean) Whether the alias applies to the IPv4 protocol
- `ipv6` (Boolean) Whether the alias applies to the IPv6 protocol


<a id="nestedatt--updatefreq"></a>
### Nested Schema for `updatefreq`

Required:

- `days` (Number) The number of days between updates
- `hours` (Number) The number of hours between updates

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# Alias can be imported by specifying the alias name.
terraform import opnsense_firewall_alias.import_example opnsense_docs
```
