---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "opnsense_firewall_nat_nptv6 Resource - opnsense"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Network Prefix Translation, shortened to NPTv6, is used to translate IPv6 addresses.
---

# opnsense_firewall_nat_nptv6 (Resource)

Network Prefix Translation, shortened to NPTv6, is used to translate IPv6 addresses.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Example NPTv6 NAT rule mapping
resource "opnsense_firewall_nat_nptv6" "resource_example" {
  enabled         = true
  log             = true
  sequence        = 1
  interface       = "lan"
  internal_prefix = "1::"
  external_prefix = "1::"
  categories = [
    "example_category"
  ]
  description = "Example NPTv6 nat rule"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `interface` (String) The interface this rule applies to.
- `internal_prefix` (String) The internal IPv6 prefix used in the LAN(s). This will replace the prefix of the destination address in inbound packets. The prefix size specified here will also be applied to the external prefix.

### Optional

- `categories` (Set of String) The categories of the rule.
- `description` (String) The description of the rule.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the NPTv6 rule entry is enabled. Defaults to `true`.
- `external_prefix` (String) The external IPv6 prefix. This will replace the prefix of the source address in outbound packets. Leave empty to auto-detect the prefix address using the specified tracking interface instead. The prefix size specified for the internal prefix will also be applied to the external prefix.
- `log` (Boolean) Whether packets that are handled by this rule should be logged. Defaults to `false`.
- `sequence` (Number) Order in which multiple matching rules are evaluated and applied. Defaults to `1`.
- `track_interface` (String) Use prefix defined on the selected interface instead of the interface this rule applies to when target prefix is not provided.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) Identifier of the NPTv6 NAT rule.
- `last_updated` (String) DateTime when the NPTv6 NAT rule was last updated.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# NPTv6 NAT rules can be imported by specifying the rule UUID. This can be found by examining the API calls on the OPNsense web interface
terraform import opnsense_firewall_nat_nptv6.import_example 7ce41c23-968c-46f2-9b6b-3c9a1519086f
```
